Junior IT Officer

GIZ



JOB ADVERTISEMENT
The Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH is a German federal enterprise. GIZ supports the Federal German Government in achieving its objectives in the field of international cooperation for sustainable development. GIZ operates in more than 130 countries around the globe. In Malawi, GIZ has been working for more than 50 years. The German international cooperation currently focuses on three priority areas: education, health and private sector development in rural areas. In addition, to our work on these areas, we also work on public financial management and economic management.

GIZ is recruiting a Junior IT Officer in the Country Office based in Lilongwe.
A.
Minimum Qualification
The ideal candidate must have at least knowledge in networking, server administration, troubleshooting hardware and software
 Fluent in English language
 Advanced Diploma/Bachelors Degree in IT or related field
 Teaching abilities.

B. Responsibilities
The IT Officer is part in a team which is responsible for
 ensuring that IT and management systems operate and function correctly
 implementing and complying with GIZ IT standards
 regularly updating computer software
 providing technical support to projects and programmes in the cluster by dealing with questions and problems relating to IT and databases

The IT Officer performs the following tasks:
C. Tasks
1. Hardware
The Junior IT Officer
 Assists in ensuring the availability of up-to-date hardware (laptops, servers, all PCs) in accordance with current GIZ standards.
 Assisting with maintenance of PCs, notebooks, printers, digital cameras, scanners and other hardware.
 discusses possible new purchases of or improvements to hardware and networks with the IT team, based on the requirements and recommendations outlined in GIZ’s IT guidelines.2. Software

The Junior IT Officer
 Assists in the implementation, maintains and configures of standard GIZ software (e.g. APS, AMS, MS Office, WinPACCS, SAP)
 Provides IT onboarding for new colleagues and offers trainings on standard software such as MS Teams, Outlook, and Planner, GIZ data back-up system etc.
 Assists in the Cisco Meraki Administration with Office configurations and management, user and machine administration.
 Tests new or upgraded software and updates all the software to the latest versions
 Provides and maintains backup programmes to ensure system availability
 Windows 10 and Office 365 installations and configurations

Support in preparation, organization and implementation of digital conferences, workshops, meetings etc. utilizing digital tools such as MS-Teams working groups, setting up of a whiteboard in Teams, pinboard etc.
 Video conference equipment management.
 IP Phone setup and management.
 Mobile phone setup.
 Support and ensure that laptops and servers are protected by permanent automatic virus checks and updated antivirus software is installed.
 Regularly updates antivirus software.

3. The internet, websites
The Junior IT Officer
 Assists in maintaining and updating existing web sites for the cluster programms
 Gives service to the cluster by coordinating necessary modifications to the existing home page in consultation with office management and the project or programme managers.
 Assists the projects in managing the IDA Malawi page and communities.

4. Operational supportThe Junior IT Officer

is responsible for the availability of the LAN, installs any updates and ensures routine, professional maintenance of the necessary hardware, installs and maintains the LAN
 consults with suppliers to guarantee the availability of the network, telephone system and IT hardware in the cluster building
 monitors the market for quality and value for money, and is responsible for specifying and procuring computer equipment
 advise projects in the procurement of software and software licenses.

5. General tasks
The Junior IT Officer
 manages and ensures general administration of the IT system for the cluster
 backs up data and deals with the problem of data security
 assists with all computer and internet problems, prepares all the necessary information and provides phone support
 assist in the development of digital solutions and/or tools such as an overview matrix on synergies between cluster projects based on already available software such as MS Excel that can be constantly updated and further developed.
 support the monitoring officers of the seven projects in setting up an IT-based M&E system for the cluster (joint indicators).
 assist in the development of IT-based systems to support administration procedures
 support projects regarding full compliance with GIZ rules and regulations concerning internal data protection.
 assists in the availability of the IT emergency service
 notifies the GIZ IT help desk of fundamental problems with GIZ IT applications
 assists in advising on IT projects
 maintains a list of all hardware and software systems, and updates this to reflect changes
 documents the installation and settings on the server and all computers.

6. Other duties/additional tasks
The Junior IT Officer
 performs other duties and tasks at the request of management.
Applicants who meet the required qualifications and skills should send their application together with a detailed Curriculum Vitae, motivation letter, academic certificates and names of three traceable referees (preferably from their previous employers) to:
The Head of HR
GIZ
P.O. Box 31131
LILONGWE 3
giz-malawi-hr@giz.de
The closing date for applications is 19thMarch 2021. Only shortlisted candidates will be contacted. GIZ is an equal opportunity employer. Women and Young professionals are encouraged to apply.




https://ntchitopamalawi.work/job/junior-it-officer-3/







__
Join our free WhatsApp Career Group via: 
https://chat.whatsapp.com/DwcNGxDmhIw4mB2k0sCGj2


*NOTICE FROM EFFLUX - NTCHITO PA MALAWI, the largest provider of local & International Jobs, Scholarships, Tenders, Consultancies and Grants in Malawi*

Visit our Website: 
http://ntchitopamalawi.work





___________

*NTCHITO PA MALAWI'S PREMIER CV SERVICE*

*PRICING*
a. STARTER CV (Students & Fresh Graduates- K3000
b. PROFESSIONAL CV (Degree holders) - K4000
c. EXECUTIVE CV/SENIOR MANAGERS (Masters Above) - K5000
d. ENTRY LEVEL COVER LETTER
 - K2500
e. PROFESSIONAL & MANAGEMENT  LEVEL COVER LETTER
 - 3000


NTCHITO PA MALAWI CONTACT INFO:
Call: +265881044484 
WhatsApp: https://wa.me/265881044484
Email: admin@ntchitopamalawi.work
(These contacts are not of the recruiter)